---
title : Engineering Functions 
author: Arun K. Patra
email: mailto:akpatra@reloadly.com
image: https://ca.slack-edge.com/T8XB4CHJQ-U0239HATSHW-7502b6e33b74-512
---


&nbsp;

This section describes the core functions of the engineering team.

&nbsp;

Build products
--------------

The engineering team is responsible for developing software (and hardware where necessary) products for Reloadly's line of businesses:

*   Airtime
    
*   Gift Cards
    
*   Utility Payments
    
*   Mobile Money (a future product)
    
&nbsp;

Based on the long term business objectives at Reloadly, the leadership team identifies industry segments where Reloadly should have a presence. Business objectives are then defined for these segments and in turn get translated to product ideas and developed by the engineering team. The engineering team comes up with the effort and schedule for each development objective and begins the required software development project.

The engineering team controls the software sizing, development, quality assurance, operations and maintenance of every software product created at Reloadly. They also work with the developer relations team to create customer(developer) facing products such as SDKs, widgets and educational material. In some cases, they work with third party consultants to achieve this.

&nbsp;

Maintain products
-----------------

Once a particular product (e.g. Gift Cards) is built and rolled out to end users, the engineering team is responsible for its day-to-day maintenance. This involves bug fixes and updates to the product on a regular basis.

&nbsp;

Integration services
--------------------

The engineering team is responsible for integrating Reloadly's infrastructure with providers of airtime, gift cards and utility bills.

&nbsp;

Support for internal tools
--------------------------

Aides from building and maintaining core platforms and products, the engineering team supports a number of internal tools such as:

*   Moesif: An analytics tracking and reporting tool used to visualize data generated by users of Reloadly's products.
    
*   Amplitude: A tool used to track analytics and provide visibility into user behavior and marketing data for Reloadly's products
    
*   Metabase: A tool used to visualize business intelligence and analytics data.

&nbsp;  

Provide ad-hoc support
----------------------

The engineering team provides ad-hoc support to other parts of Reloadly. For example, the Finance or Customer Success team may need to gather key data and insights. In cases like this, the engineering team can assist in providing such data.

&nbsp;

Investigate customer issues
---------------------------

In some cases, tools such as Moesif, Amplitude and Metabase are not sufficient enough to investigate specific customer technical issues. The engineering team helps with investigating such issues at the business team's request.

&nbsp;

Maintain and operate IT infrastructure
--------------------------------------

Reloadly's IT platforms and applications run on a variety of IT infrastructure which are hosted on cloud computing services such as Amazon Web Services (AWS), IBM Cloud and Google Cloud Platform (GCP). The engineering team manages access to this infrastructure, fixes issues that may arise and maintains infrastructure overall. Below is a table of Reloadly's key infrastructure and their respective descriptions.

&nbsp;

| **Infrastructure**   | **Description**  |
|---|---|
|Databases   |Databases contain information and data of all Reloadly's customers, staff, software and assets. They are hosted on AWS public cloud   |
| Identity Management  |Identity management services are responsible for handling the authentication, authorization and managing the identity of every customer. Reloadly uses Auth0 for identity management   |
| Servers  | Servers are responsible for running Reloadly's products and keeping them online and accessible to customers. They are hosted on IBM Cloud and also AWS Elastic Beanstalk  |
| Source code management, CI/CD, defect tracking, task tracking  | The process of managing the source code that powers every Reloadly product, optimizing continuous integration and delivery (CI/CD), tracking defects(bugs), and monitoring tasks are all accomplished by Atlassian — a software that contains a suite of tools for intensive product management   |
| VPN Services  | VPN services ensure that customers have a secure internet connection when using any of Reloadly's products. They are hosted on AWS  |
|   |   |


&nbsp;

Other functions
---------------

The role of the engineering team goes beyond product development and business as usual (BAU) activities. The team is also responsible for ensuring that Reloadly does the right things as regards to the following:

*   New technology adoption.
    
*   Information technology best practices adoption
    
*   Set overall guidance for IT security, maturity and future-readiness
    
*   Fostering a culture of continuous improvement in IT products and engineering processes.
    
*   Advice on technology upgrades.
    